# Migrating to Bento v17

Key points:

* Bento now has observability tools to help monitor the services (Grafana). Some setup is required for this feature to 
  work.
* Katsu discovery endpoints now have an authorization layer. 
  * Data that used to be completely public by default (i.e., 
    censored counts) now requires a permission (`query:project_level_counts` and/or `query:dataset_level_counts`), and 
    thus a grant in the authorization service. 
  * Beacon now requires a client ID/secret and an authorization service grant to access uncensored data.
* Katsu discovery is now more granular, and can be configured to the project or dataset level, in addition to the 
  instance level. See the [Public data discovery configuration](./public_discovery.md) document for more information.
* ...


## 1. Stop Bento

```bash
./bentoctl.bash stop
```


## 2. Update images

```bash
./bentoctl.bash pull
```


## 3. Set up credentials for aggregation/Beacon and, optionally, set up Grafana

If you wish to enable Grafana, you first must enable the monitoring feature in your `local.env` file:

```bash
BENTO_MONITORING_ENABLED='true'
```

To create the client secrets for aggregation/Beacon and Grafana (if the latter is enabled), run the following commands:

```bash
./bentoctl.bash start auth
./bentoctl.bash init-auth
```

**Reminder:** Make sure to put the client secret(s) generated by `init-auth` into your `local.env` file!

Aggregation/Beacon data access authorization will not work until an authorization service grant is configured; 
see step 4 below.


## 4. Set up aggregation/Beacon permissions and public data access grants

Now that Beacon uses a client ID/secret to get authorized, uncensored data access for discovery, a grant must be 
configured to give the aggregation/Beacon client data access.

Another change to permissions: starting from Bento v17, anonymous visitors do not have access to see censored counts 
data by default, even if a discovery configuration has been set up. For anonymous visitors to access data, a level 
(`bool`, `counts`, `full`) must be chosen and passed to the `bento_authz` CLI command below.

```bash
./bentoctl.bash shell authz

# Configure aggregation/Beacon permissions
# ----------------------------------------
# This assumes the aggregation/Beacon client ID is "aggregation". 
# <ISSUER_HERE> MUST be replaced with your actual issuer value.
#  - The query:data permission gives access to Katsu endpoints which are properly authz-enabled.
#  - The view:private_portal permission gives access to Katsu and Gohan endpoints where the proxy still manages access.
#    This permission will be removed in an uncoming version.
bento_authz create grant \
  '{"iss": "<ISSUER_HERE>", "client": "aggregation"}' \
  '{"everything": true}' \
  'query:data' 'view:private_portal'

# Configure public data access
# ----------------------------
# The level below ("counts") preserves previous functionality. Other possible options are:
#  - none - will do nothing.
#  - bool - for censored true/false discovery, but in effect right now forbids access.
#  - counts - for censored count discovery.
#  - full - allows full data access (record-level, including sensitive data such as IDs), uncensored counts, etc.
bento_authz public-data-access counts
```


## 5. Optionally, add Beacon network

To host a network of beacons, with a corresponding UI in Bento Public, first copy the config file: 

```bash
./bentoctl.bash init-config beacon-network
```

then update values at `lib/beacon/config/beacon_network_config.json`. Activate the network by adding (or modifying) this value in local.env:


```bash
BENTO_BEACON_NETWORK_ENABLED='true'
```

## 5. Start Bento

```bash
./bentoctl.bash start
```
